# The Association of Air Pollution Exposure With Glucose and Lipid Levels: The Role of an Extreme Air Pollution Event Alongside 2 Decades of Moderate Exposure.  
**Abstract:** Extreme air pollution events and moderate exposure to fine particulate matter (PM2.5) are associated with increased cardiometabolic risk. The World Trade Center (WTC) Health Program general responder cohort includes responders to the WTC disaster. We investigated whether their exposure to this extreme air pollution event (2001) was associated with long-term metabolic outcomes, independently from the associations of intermediate-term PM2.5 exposure later in life (2004–2019). We included 22,447 cohort members with cholesterol (n = 96,155) and glucose (n = 81,599) laboratory results. Self-reported WTC exposure was derived from a questionnaire. PM2.5 exposure was derived from a satellite-based model. We observed an increase of 0.78 mg/dL (95% confidence interval (CI): 0.30, 1.26) in glucose and 0.67 mg/dL (95% CI: 1.00, 2.35) in cholesterol levels associated with an interquartile range increase in PM2.5 averaged 6 months before the study visit. Higher WTC-exposure categories were also associated with higher cholesterol (0.99 mg/dL, 95% CI: 0.30, 1.67, for intermediate exposure) and glucose (0.82 mg/dL, 95% CI: 0.22, 1.43, for high exposure) levels. Most associations were larger among people with diabetes. Extreme air pollution events and intermediate PM2.5 exposure have independent metabolic consequences. These exposures contributed to higher glucose and lipids levels among WTC responders, which may be translated into increased cardiovascular risk.  
**doi:** 10.1093/aje/kwad173  
